README.md, before:

# Atomic

Use `ActionView` partials for your application's components

## Usage

### View partials for Rails-provided helper methods

Use the `atomic_tag` and `atomic` helper methods to access your design system.

The `atomic_tag` interface inherits from [Rails' `#tag` view helper][tag], and
the `atomic` interface serves as an entry point into your application-local
overrides of [`ActionView::Helpers`][helpers].

First, declare the template:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<div class="comment">
  <%= atomic_tag.h1, class: "comment__title" do %>
    A comment on the topic
  <% end %>

  <aside class="comment__author">
    <%= atomic_tag.h2 do %>
      The author's name
    <% end %>

    <%= atomic.link_to user_comments_path("1")) do %>
      Read their other comments
    <% end %>
  </aside>

  <%= atomic_tag.p, class: "comment__text" do %>
    This is the comment's body text.
  <% end %>
</div>
```

Regardless of which view partials your application declares, `atomic` and
`atomic_tag` will always fall back to the Rails provided defaults.

Go ahead, try this template out; you'll render HTML built atop Rails'-provided
`tag.h1`, `tag.h2`, and `link_to` helpers.

Next, declare view partials for methods you'd like to override:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_h1.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h1(*arguments, class: "heading heading--h1", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_h2.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h2(*arguments, class: "heading heading--h2", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_p.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h2(*arguments, class: "body-text", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/_link_to.html.erb %>
<%= link_to(*arguments, class: "link", **options, &block) %>
```

[tag]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-tag
[helpers]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html

#### Declaring default HTML Attributes

When extracting view partials, we do so in an effort to declare and share a
standard set of [CSS class names][mdn-class], or other [HTML
attributes][mdn-attributes].

Sometimes, it can be tricky to make sure that our base set of attributes are
_extended_ by the calling view template, and not _overridden_.

To facilitate in that, the partial-local `options` variable is a _decorated_
[`Hash` instance][ruby-hash] that exposes the `with_token_list_defaults` method.

Consider an application template, along with an `atomic/tags/h1` partial:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<%= atomic_tag.h1 class: "heading--special" do %>
  Special Heading
<% end %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h1(
  *arguments,
  **options.with_token_list_defaults(
    class: "heading heading--h1",
  ),
  &block
) %>
```

The call to `with_token_list_defaults` is helpful in two ways:

1. it ensures that by default, the resulting [`<h1>` element's][mdn-h1]  `class`
   attribute will _always_ contain the values `heading` and `heading--h1`.

2. calls to `atomic_tag.h1` that pass in `class:` options will have those values
   _merged_ into the [`class` attribute's `DOMTokenList`][DOMTokenList]. For
   example, in the case of this example code, the resulting [`<h1>`
   element's][mdn-h1] will be rendered as:

  ```html
  <h1 class="heading heading--h1 heading--special">
    Special Heading
  </h1>
  ```

If there are other attributes that the partial would like to be overridden, the
partial-local `options` instance adheres to the [`Hash` interface][ruby-hash]
(including [`ActiveSupport`-provided `Hash` extensions][hash-extensions]).

For instance, you could chain `with_defaults` off the value returned by
`with_token_list_defaults`:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<%= atomic.link_to "/safe-page.html", class: "link--followed", rel: nil do %>
 A link without rel attribute
<% end %>

<%# app/views/atomic/_link_to.html.erb %>
<%= link_to(
  *arguments,
  **options.with_token_list_defaults(
    class: "link",
  ).with_defaults(
    rel: :nofollow,
  ),
  &block
) %>

<!-- resulting HTML -->
<a href="/safe-page.html" class="link link--followed">
 A link without rel attribute
</a>
```

[mdn-class]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class
[mdn-attributes]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes
[ruby-hash]: https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.1/Hash.html
[mdn-h1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements
[DOMTokenList]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMTokenList
[hash-extensions]: https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_core_extensions.html#extensions-to-hash
[with_defaults]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Hash.html#method-i-with_defaults

### View Partials for your application's components

The `atomic.component` view helper provides a means of rendering view partials
declared in `app/views/atomic/components`.

For example, consider a `comments/show` template:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>

<div class="card">
  <div class="card__contents">
    <p class="comment">
      View components can be powerful!
    </p>
  </div>

  <footer class="card__footer">
    <div class="avatar">
      <img class="avatar__image" src="images/avatar-123.jpg" alt="Author Name's avatar">

      <span class="avatar__name">Author Name</span>
    </div>
  </footer>
</div>
```

There are at least three component-level concepts at-play in this template:
`card`, `comment`, and `avatar`. Let's replace them with calls to `atomic.component`:

```html+erb
<%= atomic.component.card do |_, section| %>
  <% case section when :contents %>
    <%= atomic.component.comment do %>
      View components can be powerful!
    <% end %>
  <% when :footer %>
    <%= atomic.component.avatar(
      name: "Author Name",
      src: image_path("avatar-123.jpg"),
    ) %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

Let's declare view partials for each of those components.

First, let's consider the `avatar` component. It accepts view-local variables,
and _does not_ accept a block:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_avatar.html.erb %>
<div class="avatar">
  <img class="avatar__image" src="<%= src %>" alt="<%= name %>'s avatar">

  <span class="avatar__name"><%= name %></span>
</div>
```

Next, let's consider the `comment` component. It accepts a singular block for,
which it yields as the content of the comment:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_comment.html.erb %>
<div class="comment">
  <%= yield %>
</div>
```

Finally, let's consider the `card` component. It accepts a block that it yields
_multiple_ times. It yields it once for the `:contents` section, and once for
the `:footer` section. When rendering the component from the calling view
template, it's crucial to accept the `section` as the second block parameter,
and use that value to determine which `yield` is being executed.

Within the view partial, calls to `yield` will ensure the correct value for
`section` is passed to the caller's block:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_card.html.erb %>
<div class="card">
  <div class="card__contents">
    <%= yield nil, :contents %>
  </div>

  <footer class="card__footer">
    <%= yield nil, :footer %>
  </footer>
</div>
```

While a `case` statement full of `when` clauses in your view might be surprising
and awkward at times, it's a pattern that the [`ActionView::PartialRenderer`
guides suggest][PartialRenderer].

[PartialRenderer]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/v6.0/classes/ActionView/PartialRenderer.html#class-ActionView::PartialRenderer-label-Rendering+partials+with+layouts

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'atomic'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

## Contributing
Contribution directions go here.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

Support fallback to the underlying helper method
The `Atomic::Fallback` wraps the decorated Rails helper in a way that
can be invoked at a later point in time.

---

In some cases, the changes in the Atomic view partial don't amount to
much more than default `class` declarations.

There are two ways to leverage the overridden, Rails-provided helper:

1. invoke the helper directly, by name, and splat out the view partial-local
   `arguments`, `options`, and `&block` variables:

   ```html+erb
   <%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
   <%= tag.h1(*arguments, **options.with_token_list_defaults(class: "heading"), &block) %>
   ```

2. chain your calls to declare default token lists (via
   `with_token_list_defaults`) or other default attributes (via `with_defaults`)
   off a reference to the partial-local `fallback` variable:

   ```html+erb
   <%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
   <%= fallback.with_token_list_defaults(class: "heading") %>
   ```

README.md, after:

# Atomic

Use `ActionView` partials for your application's components

## Usage

### View partials for Rails-provided helper methods

Use the `atomic_tag` and `atomic` helper methods to access your design system.

The `atomic_tag` interface inherits from [Rails' `#tag` view helper][tag], and
the `atomic` interface serves as an entry point into your application-local
overrides of [`ActionView::Helpers`][helpers].

First, declare the template:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<div class="comment">
  <%= atomic_tag.h1, class: "comment__title" do %>
    A comment on the topic
  <% end %>

  <aside class="comment__author">
    <%= atomic_tag.h2 do %>
      The author's name
    <% end %>

    <%= atomic.link_to user_comments_path("1")) do %>
      Read their other comments
    <% end %>
  </aside>

  <%= atomic_tag.p, class: "comment__text" do %>
    This is the comment's body text.
  <% end %>
</div>
```

Regardless of which view partials your application declares, `atomic` and
`atomic_tag` will always fall back to the Rails provided defaults.

Go ahead, try this template out; you'll render HTML built atop Rails'-provided
`tag.h1`, `tag.h2`, and `link_to` helpers.

Next, declare view partials for methods you'd like to override:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_h1.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h1(*arguments, class: "heading heading--h1", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_h2.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h2(*arguments, class: "heading heading--h2", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tag/_p.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h2(*arguments, class: "body-text", **options, &block) %>

<%# app/views/atomic/_link_to.html.erb %>
<%= link_to(*arguments, class: "link", **options, &block) %>
```

[tag]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers/TagHelper.html#method-i-tag
[helpers]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Helpers.html

#### Declaring default HTML Attributes

When extracting view partials, we do so in an effort to declare and share a
standard set of [CSS class names][mdn-class], or other [HTML
attributes][mdn-attributes].

Sometimes, it can be tricky to make sure that our base set of attributes are
_extended_ by the calling view template, and not _overridden_.

To facilitate in that, the partial-local `options` variable is a _decorated_
[`Hash` instance][ruby-hash] that exposes the `with_token_list_defaults` method.

Consider an application template, along with an `atomic/tags/h1` partial:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<%= atomic_tag.h1 class: "heading--special" do %>
  Special Heading
<% end %>

<%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
<%= tag.h1(
  *arguments,
  **options.with_token_list_defaults(
    class: "heading heading--h1",
  ),
  &block
) %>
```

The call to `with_token_list_defaults` is helpful in two ways:

1. it ensures that by default, the resulting [`<h1>` element's][mdn-h1]  `class`
   attribute will _always_ contain the values `heading` and `heading--h1`.

2. calls to `atomic_tag.h1` that pass in `class:` options will have those values
   _merged_ into the [`class` attribute's `DOMTokenList`][DOMTokenList]. For
   example, in the case of this example code, the resulting [`<h1>`
   element's][mdn-h1] will be rendered as:

  ```html
  <h1 class="heading heading--h1 heading--special">
    Special Heading
  </h1>
  ```

If there are other attributes that the partial would like to be overridden, the
partial-local `options` instance adheres to the [`Hash` interface][ruby-hash]
(including [`ActiveSupport`-provided `Hash` extensions][hash-extensions]).

For instance, you could chain `with_defaults` off the value returned by
`with_token_list_defaults`:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>
<%= atomic.link_to "/safe-page.html", class: "link--followed", rel: nil do %>
 A link without rel attribute
<% end %>

<%# app/views/atomic/_link_to.html.erb %>
<%= link_to(
  *arguments,
  **options.with_token_list_defaults(
    class: "link",
  ).with_defaults(
    rel: :nofollow,
  ),
  &block
) %>

<!-- resulting HTML -->
<a href="/safe-page.html" class="link link--followed">
 A link without rel attribute
</a>
```

[mdn-class]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Global_attributes/class
[mdn-attributes]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes
[ruby-hash]: https://ruby-doc.org/core-2.7.1/Hash.html
[mdn-h1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Element/Heading_Elements
[DOMTokenList]: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DOMTokenList
[hash-extensions]: https://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_support_core_extensions.html#extensions-to-hash
[with_defaults]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/Hash.html#method-i-with_defaults

#### Falling back to the Rails-provided helper

In some cases, the changes in the Atomic view partial don't amount to much more
than default `class` declarations.

There are two ways to leverage the overridden, Rails-provided helper:

1. invoke the helper directly, by name, and splat out the view partial-local
   `arguments`, `options`, and `&block` variables:

   ```html+erb
   <%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
   <%= tag.h1(*arguments, **options.with_token_list_defaults(class: "heading"), &block) %>
   ```

2. chain your calls to declare default token lists (via
   `with_token_list_defaults`) or other default attributes (via `with_defaults`)
   off a reference to the partial-local `fallback` variable:

   ```html+erb
   <%# app/views/atomic/tags/_h1.html.erb %>
   <%= fallback.with_token_list_defaults(class: "heading") %>
   ```

### View Partials for your application's components

The `atomic.component` view helper provides a means of rendering view partials
declared in `app/views/atomic/components`.

For example, consider a `comments/show` template:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/comments/show.html.erb %>

<div class="card">
  <div class="card__contents">
    <p class="comment">
      View components can be powerful!
    </p>
  </div>

  <footer class="card__footer">
    <div class="avatar">
      <img class="avatar__image" src="images/avatar-123.jpg" alt="Author Name's avatar">

      <span class="avatar__name">Author Name</span>
    </div>
  </footer>
</div>
```

There are at least three component-level concepts at-play in this template:
`card`, `comment`, and `avatar`. Let's replace them with calls to `atomic.component`:

```html+erb
<%= atomic.component.card do |_, section| %>
  <% case section when :contents %>
    <%= atomic.component.comment do %>
      View components can be powerful!
    <% end %>
  <% when :footer %>
    <%= atomic.component.avatar(
      name: "Author Name",
      src: image_path("avatar-123.jpg"),
    ) %>
  <% end %>
<% end %>
```

Let's declare view partials for each of those components.

First, let's consider the `avatar` component. It accepts view-local variables,
and _does not_ accept a block:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_avatar.html.erb %>
<div class="avatar">
  <img class="avatar__image" src="<%= src %>" alt="<%= name %>'s avatar">

  <span class="avatar__name"><%= name %></span>
</div>
```

Next, let's consider the `comment` component. It accepts a singular block for,
which it yields as the content of the comment:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_comment.html.erb %>
<div class="comment">
  <%= yield %>
</div>
```

Finally, let's consider the `card` component. It accepts a block that it yields
_multiple_ times. It yields it once for the `:contents` section, and once for
the `:footer` section. When rendering the component from the calling view
template, it's crucial to accept the `section` as the second block parameter,
and use that value to determine which `yield` is being executed.

Within the view partial, calls to `yield` will ensure the correct value for
`section` is passed to the caller's block:

```html+erb
<%# app/views/atomic/components/_card.html.erb %>
<div class="card">
  <div class="card__contents">
    <%= yield nil, :contents %>
  </div>

  <footer class="card__footer">
    <%= yield nil, :footer %>
  </footer>
</div>
```

While a `case` statement full of `when` clauses in your view might be surprising
and awkward at times, it's a pattern that the [`ActionView::PartialRenderer`
guides suggest][PartialRenderer].

[PartialRenderer]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/v6.0/classes/ActionView/PartialRenderer.html#class-ActionView::PartialRenderer-label-Rendering+partials+with+layouts

## Installation
Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

```ruby
gem 'atomic'
```

And then execute:
```bash
$ bundle
```

## Contributing
Contribution directions go here.

## License
The gem is available as open source under the terms of the [MIT License](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
